---
title: "9/10ths"
date: 2026-05-18
categories: philosophy
---

Some things only makes sense at 9/10ths--they only really function properly when you use them at 90% of their envelope, at the edge of their capability.

One example of this is performance vehicles. Track-prepped car's or motorcycles are terrible for picking up your child from school, or grabbing a box of eggs from Whole Foods--they are loud, have hard suspensions crashing over bumps unnoticeable in a Honda Odyssey, the look rakish, have no creature comforts and probably smell of gasoline. However, when one drives a vehicle like this on a track, suddenly the engine noise is less intrusive, the suspension may feel more supple and controllable, the lack of creature comforts directs your attention to going fast around a track-- and the smell of gasoline may be diminished, as there is less unburnt fuel under high load. Same vehicle, totally different experiences of use.

As you settle into the performance envelope of the vehicle, you are able to explore your performance envelope as a driver (or rider)--How well can I stay on the racing line, how late can I break before a turn, how well can I navigate with limited traction through a pair of chicanes. For most people, you quickly find that the vehicle's limits far exceed our limits--the car is able to brake later into a curve than I am brave, or my reflexes allow, not the vehicles suspension, is stopping me form staying on the racing line consistently. Some of us ultimately find some android/psychological synthesis, where we can become a part of the vehicle, exceed our human limits and start to reach those of the machine's, resulting in incredible performance.

There are a million analogies to this and building products, and teams, but I'll note one that seems glaring its ubiquitousness. La Marzocco espresso machines are performance vehicles, and way too few baristas are driving them at 9/10ths. :)
