---
title: "Theory of Value Revolution"
date: 2026-05-18
categories: investing
---

My theory of where early stage value emanates has evolved over my investing career.

My original belief, fresh out of business school and learning how to invest was that beauty created value--that beautiful, elegant ideas were forces unto themselves resulting in products more evolved than their peers that would naturally win in the marketplace--and that some founders could make beautiful products and others could not. To invest in this way, I would go very deep technically, with every investment and every founder, trying to "see" what the founder saw, and to truly understand the science or technology involved. Was it beautiful? Was is elegant? Was is beautifully made? Therefore, would it necessarily win? I strained to understand new ideas, which were often beyond me. I read text books, I called professors who were expert in specific fields of interest--most of my life was spent trying to see through the eyes of genius--to truly understand a product, and how it was made. This led to investments like Kite Pharma, which was a beautiful idea--curing cancer by reprogramming one's own t-cells to attack cancer cells, negating disease with the body's own self-produced tools. The science itself, was also beautiful and elegant. This approach also engendered a respect for brands as distilled personifications of big thoughts, broken down for general consumption (and sometimes, valued on balance sheets at exit).

I then took a detour and tried to invest in that "beauty" in a top-down way by using culture as a proxy, thinking perhaps beauty as value isn't just technical, and personified by beautiful ideas and elegant proofs, but also evident in beautiful approaches to living, believing and being, which were just as compelling to end customers. Could founders most in-tune or making products in alignment with the dominant form of this kind of beauty outperform? Instead of text books, I read books like *Hillbilly Elegy*, *Labyrinth of Solitude*, and *Between the World and Me* to try gauge where the puck of culture was headed to inform where to look-- It was an audacious idea, and it worked. Admittedly, it was also fueled by tech itself becoming popular culture. This led to investments like Gimlet Media who was creating audio content with the production beauty of a Hollywood studio on topics central to prevailing cultural trends.

Today, I consider micro and macro in investing, and have doubled down on my original theory of value, focusing more on the technical truth of how a thing works, and the hard fought results of elegant ideas. I have also become part of a tribe of technical thought partners who can help me to go deeper than I could otherwise go alone. Beautifully built products tend to create beautiful experiences for customers, though the process of building them can be excruciating. Lately I've been approaching the world with a beginner's mind reading technical manuals, and Github Repositories as there is so much to learn in this new cycle. The random walk to optimal requires experimentation to synthesize the ideal. I've made progress, but there is still a ways to go.
